# llSPS-INT-2607-Predicting-Life-Expectancy-using-Machine-Learning
Predicting Life Expectancy using Machine Learning

Life Expectancy most commonly refers to life expectancy at birth, the mediannumber of years that a population born in a particularyear could expect to live. Forinstance, based on recently released final data, life expectancy at birth in 2003 was77.5 years.
	ife expectancy from birth is a frequently utilized and analyzed component of demographic data for the countries of the world. It represents the average life span of a newborn and is an indicator of the overall health of a country. In this sense, life expectancy is one of the factors in measuring the Human Development of each nation, and also used in describing the physical quality of life of an area.
According to several empirical studies, demographic factors such as race, gender, and income, direct mortality causes such as cancer, stroke or heart disease, environmental heath, risk factors for premature death, and access to care service have been proven as influential factors on Life expectancy. However, the specific level of significancesf or health-related daily behavioral risk factors and general public supports on Life expectancy has not been clearly verified, excluding direct mortality causes.
Life expectancy is one of the most important factors in end-of-life decision making. Good prognostication for example helps to determine the course of treatment and helps to anticipate the procurement of health care services and facilities, or more broadly: facilitates Advance Care Planning. Advance Care Planning improves the quality of the final phase of life by stimulating doctors to explore the preferences for end-of-life care with their patients, and people close to the patients. Physicians, however, tend to overestimate life expectancy, and miss the window of opportunity to initiate Advance Care Planning.In this project we are going to use machine learning and natural language processing techniques for predicting life expectancy from electronic medical records
